Me: Uh, hey, Coach?

Ditka: Yeah?

Me: I, uh, just, uh, wanted to formally introduce myself. My name is Matthew Berry and I'm the ...

Ditka: You're the guy who said to sit Larry Johnson, right?

I nod silently and quickly walked away.

So, every week I rank about 200 players, times 17 is 3,400. At the time I made the Larry Johnson call, I had been doing it for seven years, so that's almost 25,000 calls. And that's not including baseball and basketball, both of which I did for many years, doesn't include those I've made doing radio or TV hits, doing chats, answering emails and texts from readers and friends ... I couldn't tell you how many predictions I make in a single day, let alone a week or my career.

But up until that moment in the hallway, I'd never really thought about it from a public perception. I mean, I made my picks, but they were for smaller websites, local radio, what have you. This was ESPN. This was "Sunday NFL Countdown." This was the only thing Mike Ditka knew about me.

Oh, man.

I felt pretty dumb about that one for a while and I realized that because of the power and reach of ESPN I had to make calls that I 100 percent believed in. I ultimately was proved right on Johnson that year, as he limped to just 559 yards and three scores in eight games before getting hurt and being lost for the season. But I just wouldn't tell someone to bench their first-round pick in Week 4. I just wouldn't.

I can't predict the future -- no one can -- and I know this. I also know based on the sheer volume of ranks and predictions I have to make in any given week there are bound to be misses, some of them whoppers. But I also know that I hit a lot more than I miss.

So as long as the foundation of the analysis is solid, I'm good. I really do appreciate the note, Peter, but I gotta tell you, I slept great Sunday night. Make no mistake, I hate when I get stuff wrong. And there have definitely been calls that went sideways where, when I looked back at it, I said to myself ... "you know, I missed that piece. Should have thought of that and changed the prediction." I tossed and turned after the Larry Johnson call. There have been other calls that have kept me up nights. But not this one. The analysis was right; it just didn't work out. If you are at a blackjack table and you have 18 and the dealer is showing a five, you definitely don't hit. But you could, and it's possible that you turn up a three. It was the wrong call, but it worked out. Happens.

I don't want to come across as defensive, because I am not feeling that way; I just want to reassure you that I don't put players on the love or the hate list without having a solid reason for it. And when you make your calls for your team, you should also make them with conviction. Have a strong understanding and logic as to why you are doing what you are doing. Because if it doesn't work out (and this is fantasy football we are talking about, so there's definitely a chance of that), you'll at least feel OK about it. You made the right call. It just didn't work out. Happens. Just like putting Ben on the hate list last week. Given the same information again, I'd make that call every time.

Before we dive in, quick addendum to the Ditka story. A few weeks later, I walk into the green room and many of our NFL analysts are in there, including Ditka. I see one former player I haven't met yet and as we shake hands, I tell him I'm the fantasy football guy. He says "Oh," but his expression is clearly dismissive. Ditka sees this and pipes up, speaking to me but loud enough for everyone to hear: "You know, I don't play but all my kids do. I gotta tell you, they love it. Everywhere I go I get asked about it. What you're doing is really important."

Then, to the former player, he says: "Kid knows what he's talking about."

The former player nods, now with more of an "OK, cool, good to know, you're one of us" kind of vibe. Ditka's the best. Just an amazing human being. He is beloved here, and rightfully so. Anyone who has met him loves him. One of my favorite people at ESPN. After meeting him, it's very clear. In a fight between an Imperial Starfleet and Ditka, Ditka wins.

As always, a tip of the cap to Zach Rodgers of ESPN Stats & Information for always replying to my emails and questions with helpful answers. Zach is always very sure in his takes. Let's get to it.
